= DoesFacebook Road Map

Moving forward, the existing trunk of DoesFacebook (v0.*) will be closed to
make way for cleaner implementation and new features in the upcomding v1.*
branch. Within code, these tracks are represented by the
{"v0" (original) branch}[https://github.com/awexome/doesfacebook/tree/v0]
and the 
{"v1" (new) branch}[https://github.com/awexome/doesfacebook/tree/v1].

This document reflects the planned changes for versions going forward.

== v0.6.0

Expected release by November 2012. Fixes issues and extends functionality of
the existing v0.5.* track. Introduces deprecations, but does not break
functionality.

Planned features:

 * Add new and clean up existing helper methods
 * Bring proper url_for_canvas support into controllers
 * Increase flexibility of JS-based redirect with custom partial,
    template, message, and/or delay loaded from configuration or
    directly in method call

== v1.0.0

Expected release by December 2012. Changes API and methods of configuration
while adding deeper integrations, new features, and currently unsupported
Facebook features. Will break some aspects of code written against prior
versions of the library.

Planned features:

 * Remove support for previously-deprecated methods
 * Change format of configuration, following config/initializers pattern
 * Allow app configurations to be loaded via YAML, Proc, database
 * Change standards and optimizations for helpers, filters
 * Provide user, page, and referrer details to apps in filters
 * Add deeper integration options with Graph API via DoesOpenGraph


== Support

Support for v0 branch releases will continue alongside v1 branch releases
following the release of v1.0.0, however only bugfixes and tweaks will
be added to the v0 branch once v1.0.0 is released. All new feature
development and required alterations for Facebook-initiated changes 
will take place in the v1 branch only.
